title: CHEOPS

# CHEOPS

CHEOPS (CHEss OPponent Simulator) is a fully-functional chess program capable of human-vs-human, human-vs-computer, and computer-vs-computer play. It uses a 64-square linear array board representation. The game tree search is alpha–beta, and the static evaluation function considers material, mobility, and motif features.

CHEOPS is written in ANSI C++ and as such should compile on any system with a conforming C++ compiler. A standard configure script is provided for Unix-like systems.

CHEOPS is Free Software. It can be freely used, modified, and distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public Licence.

=> https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html Free Software
=> https://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html GNU General Public Licence

## Downloading

The latest version of CHEOPS is 1.3, released on 2016-12-27. A list of changes from previous versions can be found in the change log.

=> https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/cheops/NEWS change log

### Source code

You can download source packages for the current and previous releases on GitHub or nothingisreal.com. You can also browse, download, or clone the development version on GitHub.

=> https://github.com/logological/cheops/releases CHEOPS releases on GitHub
=> https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/cheops/ CHEOPS releases on nothingisreal.com
=> https://github.com/logological/cheops/ browse, download, or clone the development version on GitHub

### Ports and binary packages

Binary packages are available for several systems:

* OpenSUSE and SUSE Linux Enterprise
* Michael Yee has produced a UCI-enabled build of CHEOPS 1.1 for Microsoft Windows.
* Daniel José Queraltó has produced a build of CHEOPS 1.2 for Microsoft Windows. (On some systems, you may need to also install Microsoft's Visual C++ runtime packages.)

Note that, except for the SUSE packages, these packages are produced and hosted by third parties. I take no responsibility for them.

=> http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/psych0naut/ OpenSUSE and SUSE Linux Enterprise
=> http://web.mit.edu/myee/www/chess/cheops-1.1uci.zip CHEOPS 1.1 for Microsoft Windows
=> http://www.andscacs.com/cheops_1.2/cheops_1.2.rar CHEOPS 1.2 for Microsoft Windows
=> http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=40784 Visual C++ runtime packages

## Documentation

You can browse through the online HTML documentation. The source distribution includes the documention.

=> https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/cheops/cheops.html online HTML documentation

## Author

CHEOPS was conceived and written by Tristan Miller.

=> gemini://gemini.logological.org/ Tristan Miller
