title: DELORES

# DELORES

DELORES (DEfeasible LOgic REasoning System) is a forward-chaining reasoning engine for defeasible logic, a less expressive but more efficient nonmonotonic logic. In contrast with most other nonmonotonic logics, defeasible logic has linear complexity, allowing DELORES to execute large theories very quickly. DELORES's algorithm extends to general defeasible theories through the use of a preprocessing transformation which eliminates all uses of defeaters and superiority relations. The transformation was designed to provide incremental transformation of defeasible theories, and systematically uses new atoms and new defeasible rules to simulate the eliminated features.

DELORES is Free Software. It is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public Licence.

=> https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html Free Software
=> https://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html GNU General Public Licence

## Downloading

The latest version of DELORES is 0.91, released on 2003-12-18. A list of changes from previous versions can be found in the change log.

=> https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/delores/NEWS change log

You can download source packages for the current and previous releases on GitHub or nothingisreal.com. You can also browse, download, or clone the development version on GitHub.

=> https://github.com/logological/delores/releases DELORES releases on GitHub
=> https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/delores/ DELORES releases on nothingisreal.com
=> https://github.com/logological/delores/ browse, download, or clone the development version on GitHub

## Documentation

The distribution includes a Unix man page plus a Programmer's Guide (in LaTeX, DVI, and PDF formats). You can also read the online HTML documentation.

=> https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/delores/delores.html online HTML documentation

For more information on DELORES and defeasible logic, please visit Michael Maher's publications page.

=> https://www.unsw.adfa.edu.au/australian-centre-for-cyber-security/associate-professor-michael-maher Michael Maher's publications page

## Authors

DELORES was originally conceived by Michael Maher and implemented by Tristan Miller. Development of DELORES was supported by the Australian Research Council under grant A49803544.

=> https://www.unsw.adfa.edu.au/australian-centre-for-cyber-security/associate-professor-michael-maher Michael Maher
=> gemini://gemini.logological.org/ Tristan Miller

Please report bugs to the GitHub issue tracker or by e-mail to Tristan Miller.

=> https://github.com/logological/delores/issues GitHub issue tracker
=> mailto:psychonaut@nothingisreal.com Tristan Miller
