Title: eoconv

# eoconv

eoconv is a tool which converts text files to and from the following Esperanto text encodings:

* ASCII postfix h notation
* ASCII postfix x notation
* ASCII postfix caret (^) notation
* ASCII prefix caret (^) notation
* ISO-8859-3
* Unicode (UTF-7, UTF-8, UTF-16, UTF-32)
* HTML entities (decimal or hexadecimal)
* LaTeX sequences

eoconv is Free Software. It is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public Licence.

=> https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html Free Software
=> https://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html GNU General Public Licence

## Downloading

The latest stable version of eoconv is 1.5, released on 2016-12-22. It requires Perl 5.20 or higher. A list of changes from previous versions can be found in the change log.

=> https://github.com/logological/eoconv/releases/latest latest stable version
=> https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/eoconv/NEWS change log

### Source code

You can download source packages for the current and previous releases on GitHub or nothingisreal.com. You can also browse, download, or clone the development version on GitHub.

=> https://github.com/logological/eoconv/releases eoconv releases on GitHub
=> https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/eoconv/ eoconv releases on nothingisreal.com
=> https://github.com/logological/eoconv/ browse, download, or clone the development version on GitHub

### Packages

Packages are available for several systems, including:

=> https://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=eoconv Debian GNU/Linux
=> http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/psych0naut/ OpenSUSE and SUSE Linux Enterprise
=> http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=eoconv Ubuntu

Note that, except for the SUSE packages, these packages are produced and hosted by third parties. I take no responsibility for them.

## Documentation

You can browse through the online HTML documentation. The source distribution includes the documention as an HTML file, man page, and text document.

=> https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/eoconv/eoconv.html online HTML documentation

## Authors

eoconv was conceived and written by Tristan Miller.

=> gemini://gemini.logological.org/ Tristan Miller
